# Operating System HW2 (Chapter 4-6 programming problems)

This repository contains three multithreaded programs implemented in different programming languages: C++, Java, and Pthread. Each program solves a different problem and uses multithreading to improve performance.

## 4.17 Monte Carlo Pi (./monte-carlo)

The `monte-carlo` program estimates the value of Pi using the Monte Carlo method. It generates random points inside a square with sides of length 2 and centered at the origin. It then counts the number of points that fall inside the inscribed circle with radius 1 and centered at the origin. The ratio of the number of points inside the circle to the total number of points generated is an estimate of Pi/4.

To run the program, navigate to the `./monte-carlo` folder and run the following command:

```
g++ -std=c++11 -pthread monte-carlo.cpp -o monte-carlo
./monte-carlo
```

## [optional] (4.21**) Fibonacci Sequence (./fib)

The `fib` program generates the Fibonacci sequence using multithreading. It creates a separate thread that generates a specified number of Fibonacci numbers, placing the sequence in an array that can be shared by the threads. The parent thread then outputs the sequence generated by the child thread.

To run the program, navigate to the `./fib` folder and run the following command:

```
javac FibMultiThread.java
java FibMultiThread <numFibNumbers>
```

## 6.33* Monte Carlo Pi with Mutex (./monte-carlo-mutex)

The `monte-carlo-mutex` program is an extension of the `monte-carlo` program. It uses multiple threads to generate random points and determine if they fall within the circle. Each thread updates the global count of all points that fall within the circle. The program protects against race conditions on updates to the shared global variable by using mutex locks.

To run the program, navigate to the `./monte-carlo-mutex` folder and run the following command:

```
g++ -std=c++11 -pthread monte-carlo-mutex.cpp -o monte-carlo-mutex
./monte-carlo-mutex
```